Previously, we talked about obtaining console log
and access to Cloud, servers, and instances.
Oftentimes, engineering teams will need to establish network connectivity to these hosts
and other endpoints running in private subnets such as RDS database instances, etc.
Here, we will outline a few methods for establishing
access to resources running in your Cloud environments.
We'll be viewing this from the perspective of a developer
or DevOps engineer who needs to manage the environment.
Bastion hosts or jump hosts are set up in a public subnet to allow user to log in from
either their home or office network and
subsequently access or jump to resources in a private network.
The host would need to be hardened and only allow
access from the public IP address of the users.
The pros are that it's simple,
low cost method for getting into your Cloud VPC.
On the other hand, exposing a server to the Internet makes it a common target for
attackers who hope to gain access to the network by
exploiting a vulnerability on the bastion host.
Because of this, it will require additional effort to harden the bastion host,
including adding security monitoring and performing penetration testing.
A bastion host is not scalable for many users or larger teams,
and it may not be practical if you have
client applications that need to be run on a user's laptop or desktop.
An example of this may be proprietary reporting tools
or database client applications that run on a user's local machine.
In this scenario, these tools would need to be installed on the bastion host itself.
Another solution is a virtual desktop,
similar to a bastion host,
except that each user will get their own virtual desktop.
AWS provides the work spaces service for this.
The benefit here is that it allows users to install
their desktop application clients in the Cloud environment
without having direct connectivity to the VPC from their local laptop.
Unfortunately, this does cost more than using a bastion host,
especially when you have multiple users.
Users will not have direct connectivity from
their local machines to any of the backend services that are in the VPC.
Client VPN solution allows a user to connect to
the Cloud VPC using a secure VPN client to establish an encrypted tunnel.
AWS provides a client VPN service although
many firewall appliance vendors also have this capability.
Open-source tools such as open VPN are also popular solutions.
The client VPNs are easy to set up.
They also have the ability to manage many users and roles,
and using a client VPN places the user into the VPC so that they
have direct access to resources that are deployed in the VPC.
This will allow them to use their client applications under
local machines to hit those resources that are in the VPC.
Again, client VPN does incur some additional costs compared to a bastion host,
and it's also going to force users to
install proprietary VPN clients on their local machines.
With the site-to-site VPN,
we can connect a local trusted network's Internet-facing firewall
with the AWS VPN service.
This allows us to establish a VPN tunnel from
the entire local network to the AWS VPC network,
and this link would be established over the Internet, of course.
Little benefit here is that there's no need to install
any VPN client software on each user's local machine.
But unfortunately, additional routing and
configuration needs to be performed on the local network,
which often leads to delays in the setup,
and there's no authentication or role-based access for establishing that connectivity.
Direct Connect link is a dedicated link from
a corporate office network or co-location datacenter.
This is a private connection that does not go over the public Internet.
Additional setup may be needed to establish
a dedicated MPLS connection to a co-location datacenter,
which host AWS routers that can establish that link to the Direct Connect service.
With the Direct Connect, you have dedicated bandwidth,
and it's ideal for Cloud environments where applications in
the data center need to integrate with applications in the Cloud environment.
This is definitely going to be a higher cost and it does take more time to set up.
Once it is setup,
if users are not on the corporate local area network,
the solutions such as VPN or VDI will still need to be implemented.
So it's generally not an option for
small or virtual teams that don't have a corporate network that they're working out of.
So to summarize, among all the options,
setting up a bastion host is generally the default path
for smaller development teams that are starting out in the Cloud,
since it is the quickest and cheapest solution.
Unfortunately, Internet-facing bastion hosts are also a common target for attackers who
hope to gain access to the network by exploiting a vulnerability on the bastion host.
Due to this, you should make sure that
the bastion host have had security hardening done on them.
Should also make use of the session manager tool to access the bastion instead of
accessing it directly in order to reduce the Internet-facing attack surface.
As teams grow, you will need to consider a better security strategy,
leveraging VPN and virtual desktop solutions.